feat(post-scan action): GCP Slack notification for FSS (#87)
trendmicro/cloudone-filestorage-plugins: post-scan-actions/gcp-python-slack-notification/docs/deploy-tutorial.md

# Cloud One File Storage Security Post Scan Action for  Slack notifications

## Overview

<walkthrough-tutorial-duration duration="10"></walkthrough-tutorial-duration>

This tutorial will guide you to deploy a Google Cloud function to push Slack notifications for every File Storage Security detection.

--------------------------------

## Project Setup

> Select the project in which you want to deploy the slack notification Cloud function. Ideally, this would be the same project where the Cloud Storage bucket and File Storage Security Storage stack reside.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the project in which you want to deploy the slack notification Cloud function. This should be the same project where the Cloud Storage bucket and File Storage Security Storage stack reside.
```

<walkthrough-project-setup></walkthrough-project-setup>

Copy and execute the script in the Cloud Shell or click <walkthrough-open-cloud-shell-button></walkthrough-open-cloud-shell-button>:

```
gcloud config set project <walkthrough-project-id/>
```

--------------------------------

## Configure Google Cloud function

Build your deployment command by substituting the following fields in your sample deployment command. An example/default value for these fields can be found in the field description below.

### Deployment by command-line

Replace the values in the following command and store the output for the next step

```sh
    serverless deploy -s prod \
    --param="SLACK_URL=<SLACK_URL>" \
    --param="DEPLOYMENT_REGION=<DEPLOYMENT_REGION>" \
    --param="GCP_PROJECT_ID=<GCP_PROJECT_ID>" \
    --param="TRIGGER_RESOURCE=<TRIGGER_RESOURCE>" \
    --param="EVENT_TYPE=<EVENT_TYPE>" \
    --param="SLACK_CHANNEL=<SLACK_CHANNEL>" \
    --param="SLACK_USERNAME=<SLACK_USERNAME>"
```

where,

- **SLACK_URL** - The incoming webhook URL generated from Slack Apps. Example: `https://hooks.slack.com/services/T00000000/B00000000/XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX`

> - **DEPLOYMENT_REGION** - The region where the File Storage Security Storage stack was deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **DEPLOYMENT_REGION** - The region in which the File Storage Security Storage stack is deployed.
```

- **GCP_PROJECT_ID** - Project ID of the GCP project.
- **TRIGGER_RESOURCE** - Topic name of the scan result topic name. Example: `projects/<PROJECT_ID>/topics/<SCAN_RESULT_TOPIC_NAME>`
- **EVENT_TYPE** - Optional. Defaults to `providers/cloud.pubsub/eventTypes/topic.publish`
- **SLACK_CHANNEL** - Optional. Defaults to ***#notifications*** Slack channel
- **SLACK_USERNAME** - Optional. Defaults to "*Cloud One File Storage Security*"

### Deployment through serverless.yml file

> You could hardcode these values in the <walkthrough-editor-select-line filePath="cloudone-filestorage-plugins/post-scan-actions/gcp-python-slack-notification/serverless.yml" startLine="6" endLine="14">serverless.yml</walkthrough-editor-select-line> file. To override a hard-coded value during runtime, simply pass it as a `--param` as shown in the command-line section above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You could hardcode these values in the <walkthrough-editor-select-line filePath="cloudone-filestorage-plugins/post-scan-actions/gcp-python-slack-notification/serverless.yml" startLine="6" endLine="14">serverless.yml</walkthrough-editor-select-line> file. To override a hard-coded value during runtime, pass it as a `--param` as shown in the command-line section above.
```

> Simply replace, the `params` section of the serverless.yml with the right values and run `serverless deploy` as shown in the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace, the `params` section of the serverless.yml with the right values and run `serverless deploy` as shown in the next step.
```

```yaml
params:
  prod:
    SLACK_URL: <SLACK_URL>
    SLACK_CHANNEL: notifications
    SLACK_USERNAME: Cloud One File Storage Security
    DEPLOYMENT_REGION: <GCP_DEPLOYMENT_REGION>
    GCP_PROJECT_ID: <PROJECT_ID>
    EVENT_TYPE: providers/cloud.pubsub/eventTypes/topic.publish
    TRIGGER_RESOURCE: projects/<PROJECT_ID>/topics/<SCAN_RESULT_TOPIC_NAME>
```

--------------------------------

## Deploy Google Cloud function to push Slack notifications

1. Install Serverless on your local machine.

    ```sh
    npm install -g serverless
    ```

2. Deploy Serverless project.

>     This cloudone plugin requires some dependencies from the serverless plugin ecosystem, like `serverless-google-cloudfunctions` before we can deploy this project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This cloudone plugin requires some dependencies from the serverless plugin ecosystem, for example `serverless-google-cloudfunctions`, before you can deploy this project.
```

    - Install serverless dependencies

        ```sh
        serverless plugin install -n serverless-google-cloudfunctions
        ```

    - Deploy your serverless project

>         - Through command-line

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Through command-line:
```

            ```sh
            serverless deploy -s prod \
            --param="SLACK_URL=<SLACK_URL>" \
            --param="DEPLOYMENT_REGION=<DEPLOYMENT_REGION>" \
            --param="GCP_PROJECT_ID=<GCP_PROJECT_ID>" \
            --param="TRIGGER_RESOURCE=<TRIGGER_RESOURCE>" \
            --param="EVENT_TYPE=<EVENT_TYPE>" \
            --param="SLACK_CHANNEL=<SLACK_CHANNEL>" \
            --param="SLACK_USERNAME=<SLACK_USERNAME>"
            ```

>         - Using `serverless.yml` and the values provided within the file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Using `serverless.yml` and the values provided within the file:
```

            ```sh
            serverless deploy -s prod
            ```

--------------------------------

## Test Slack notifications

> Check Slack to see new notifications. To test your deployment, you'll need to generate a malware detection using the eicar file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check Slack for new notifications. To test your deployment, you'll need to generate a malware detection using the eicar file.
```

> 1. Download the eicar file from eicar file page into your scanning bucket with the script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download the eicar file from eicar file page into your scanning bucket with the script:
```

# Cloud One File Storage Security Post Scan Action for GCP - Slack notifications

## Overview

<walkthrough-tutorial-duration duration="10"></walkthrough-tutorial-duration>

This tutorial will guide you to deploy a Google Cloud function to push Slack notifications.

## Project Setup

Copy the execute the script below to set the project ID where the storage stack is deployed.

<walkthrough-project-setup></walkthrough-project-setup>

> If using a local machine and not Google Cloud Shell, use `gcloud auth application-default login` to login with gcloud CLI.

```
gcloud config set project <walkthrough-project-id/>
```

## Deploy Google Cloud function to push Slack notifications

> 1. Setup the serverless.yml file with your `environment` variables, like `SLACK_URL`, `SLACK_CHANNEL`, `SLACK_USERNAME`

Reviewer 2: Consider using [CLI parameters](https://www.serverless.com/framework/docs/guides/parameters#cli-parameters) to specify their values.

Author: Love the params suggestion ❤️. I am incorporating the **${param:XXX}** such that it takes CLI parameters and falls back to params.<stage> parameters, if CLI parameter is not found.

Reviewer 2: I thought CLI parameters are enough for deployment. Is there any use case where the deployment cannot take CLI parameters and needs to use `params` in the template?

Reviewer 2: You don't need to define a stage for reducing the hard-coded (or default?) values. Like the following example, `deploymentRegion` will be `us-east-1` if CLI parameters don't contain `DEPLOYMENT_REGION`.
```yaml
custom:
  eventType: providers/cloud.pubsub/eventTypes/topic.publish
  deploymentRegion: ${param:DEPLOYMENT_REGION, 'us-east1'}
```

What I want to reduce is the `<XXX_XXX>` in the serverless template. From the points of automation, replacing those strings in a file is much harder than passing them through CLI.

Author: Customer can still pass them as CLI arguments if they don't want to hardcode it inside the serverless.yml file. `params` enables both CLI and stage variables and the customer can choose what variables they need to set in stage so when they don't pass a CLI argument, it would fail over to stage params.

Reviewer 2: This has a precondition that they already hardcoded all `<XXX>` in `serverless.yml`. If they didn't do it, the "fail over" doesn't work. Those variables are inputs for deploying the resources, and serverless framework can help customers deploy the resources with the same codes but different inputs. That's one of the advantages of using IaC tool, and I really like the choice. Given that the tool already provides the capability, why would we still keep "hardcode" way for specifying inputs? Is there any scenario or advantage that I don't see?

Reviewer 2: Yup, so I'd like to know under which scenario users will choose to hardcode values in the template. Another thing is the stage for serverless framework doesn't seem to be designed for "fail over". If we don't have other "stage", I don't think we need that. If there's no such use case, I prefer we remove the stage and keep only CLI parameters to make it simpler.

Reviewer 2: That might be helpful for teams sharing the same project but different channels. If you insist to hardcode default values, another choice is to use [dotenv](https://www.serverless.com/framework/docs/environment-variables) with `.env` file. Then users don't need to modify `serverless.yml` for every environment, which I don't think is a good practice.

Stage parameter is designed for deploying the templates to different stages with their own parameters. It indeeds have fail over behavior, but it doesn't mean we should use it just because of fail over.

Author: I am not sure if it would be a good idea to add new dependencies, like dotenv,  to the code to implement a feature that is available in the vanilla serverless framework. Users can simply use the CLI params to pass/override to the script runtime.

Thank you for your time and feedback. It is much appreciated.

2. Deploy Serverless project

    ```
    serverless plugin install -n serverless-google-cloudfunctions
    serverless deploy -s prod

>     ```

Author: - Adding a devDependency `serverless` did not install serverless executable on the Google Cloud Shell. 
- Using `npm install -g serverless` installed the serverless executable.
- Updated the README and the docs with the same.

>     ```

Reviewer 3: Adding `serverless` to devDependency will allow you to run with `npm run deploy` with the deploy script set to `sls deploy --verbose`.

- **DEPLOYMENT_REGION** - The region where the File Storage Security Storage stack was deployed.
- **GCP_PROJECT_ID** - Project ID of the GCP project.
- **TRIGGER_RESOURCE** - Topic name of the scan result topic name. Example: `projects/<PROJECT_ID>/topics/<SCAN_RESULT_TOPIC_NAME>`
- **EVENT_TYPE** - Optional. Defaults to `providers/cloud.pubsub/eventTypes/topic.publish`
- **SLACK_CHANNEL** - Optional. Defaults to ***#notifications*** Slack channel
- **SLACK_USERNAME** - Optional. Defaults to "*Cloud One File Storage Security*"

--------------------------------

## Deploy Google Cloud function to push Slack notifications

1. Install Serverless on your local machine.

    ```sh
    npm install -g serverless
    ```

2. Deploy Serverless project.

    ```sh
    serverless plugin install -n serverless-google-cloudfunctions

    serverless deploy -s prod /
    --param="SLACK_URL=<SLACK_URL>" /
    --param="DEPLOYMENT_REGION=<DEPLOYMENT_REGION>" /
    --param="GCP_PROJECT_ID=<GCP_PROJECT_ID>" /
    --param="TRIGGER_RESOURCE=<TRIGGER_RESOURCE>" /
    --param="EVENT_TYPE=<EVENT_TYPE>" /
    --param="SLACK_CHANNEL=<SLACK_CHANNEL>" /

>     --param="SLACK_USERNAME=<SLACK_USERNAME>"

Author: Good catch! Resolved.
